
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="folder_rsync">Folder Rsync</h1>
<div class="level1">
<pre class="file">Q : How to run expect file manually?
Ans:
/usr/bin/python /usr/local/NAS/misc/agent/python/backup/rsyncAgent.py startRR /tmp/RR_20180606100758.exp 3 30
</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Folder Rsync" [1-197] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit2" id="iftacl">IFTACL</h1>
<div class="level1">
<pre class="file">Q: How to enable iftacl for volume?
Ans:
1. /usr/local/iftacl_vol /Pool-1/volume_1/ -e
2. getfattr -d -m - /Pool-1/volume_1/
getfattr: Removing leading &#039;/&#039; from absolute path names
# file: Pool-1/volume_1/
security.iftacl=0sAQARAQAAAAAAAAAAjAQACwAAAAMAAwAfAf8BAAAAAAADABIAqQIAAAAAAAMAEgCpAwAAAAA=
security.iftacl_vol
trusted.volname=&quot;volume_1&quot;

Q: How to show the debug message of iftacl?
Ans:
1. /usr/local/iftacl_dbg
2. dmesg -w
[20777.216456] ++++iftacl_debug_enable+++, 1

0 --&gt; close
1 --&gt; open

Q: How to switch between iftacl and posix-acl?
Ans:
1. /usr/local/iftacl_switch
2. dmesg -w
[20034.958464] ++++ift_switch+++, 0

0 --&gt; close (switch to posix-acl)
1 --&gt; open (switch to iftacl)
</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "IFTACL" [198-929] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit3" id="user_group">user / group</h1>
<div class="level1">
<pre class="file">
[Question]
Q: How to add group relation between nt-group and unix-group?
Ans:
Example: 
/usr/bin/net groupmap add ntgroup=&#039;uesrs&#039; unixgroup=&#039;users&#039; rid=513 type=local

Description:
This example have two steps:
1. Add a nt group named &quot;users&quot; with rid 513.
2. Create relation between ntgroup and unixgroup.

[Question]
Q: How to remove group relation between nt-group and unix-group?
Ans:
Example: 
/usr/bin/net groupmap delete ntgroup=&#039;users&#039;

Description:
This example will remove the ntgroup named users.

 </pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "user / group" [930-1484] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit4" id="frequently_asked_questions">Frequently Asked Questions</h1>
<div class="level1">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/jerryg/doku.php?id=nas:faq:gmodel_ctrlab" class="wikilink1" title="nas:faq:gmodel_ctrlab">Gui send A/B controller in G-Model, How to handle it?</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/jerryg/doku.php?id=nas:faq:haserver_reloadmodule" class="wikilink1" title="nas:faq:haserver_reloadmodule">How to reload module in HAServer</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/jerryg/doku.php?id=nas:faq:haserver_initxml" class="wikilink1" title="nas:faq:haserver_initxml">How to init xml config file in HAServer</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/jerryg/doku.php?id=nas:faq:nas_nfs" class="wikilink2" title="nas:faq:nas_nfs" rel="nofollow">How to set nfs service</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/jerryg/doku.php?id=nas:faq:create_file" class="wikilink1" title="nas:faq:create_file">Create file by specific size</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/jerryg/doku.php?id=nas:faq:export_import_ldap_server" class="wikilink1" title="nas:faq:export_import_ldap_server">ldap server export and import mechanism</a></div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="/jerryg/doku.php?id=nas:faq:mount_root_filesystem_byiscsi" class="wikilink1" title="nas:faq:mount_root_filesystem_byiscsi">mount root filesystem by iscsi</a></div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "Frequently Asked Questions" [1485-] -->