
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="faq">FAQ</h1>
<div class="level1">
<pre class="file">Reference:
1. Command of grub shell
https://www.gnu.org/software/grub/manual/grub/html_node/Command_002dline-and-menu-entry-commands.html

2. ftrace
2.1 https://lwn.net/Articles/365835/
2.2 https://lwn.net/Articles/370423/

3. trace-cmd
https://jvns.ca/blog/2017/03/19/getting-started-with-ftrace/

Q5 : list all function we can trace
Ans:
trace-cmd list -f

Q4 : Follow Q3, how to instead of trace-cmd?
Ans:
# Installation
yum install trace-cmd

# start tracing
trace-cmd record -p function -l vfs_rename

# test
[root@localhost tracing]# touch /root/file1
[root@localhost tracing]# touch /root/file2
[root@localhost tracing]# mv /root/file1 /root/file2

# report
trace-cmd report

  systemd-logind-697   [000]  7223.051802: function:             vfs_rename
  systemd-logind-697   [000]  7223.052213: function:             vfs_rename
  systemd-logind-697   [000]  7223.053609: function:             vfs_rename
  systemd-logind-697   [000]  7223.053931: function:             vfs_rename
  systemd-logind-697   [000]  7223.054199: function:             vfs_rename
    in:imjournal-1038  [000]  7223.077906: function:             vfs_rename
    in:imjournal-1038  [000]  7223.080635: function:             vfs_rename
    in:imjournal-1038  [000]  7223.090365: function:             vfs_rename
              mv-8999  [000]  7228.777209: function:             vfs_rename



Q3 : How to trace function name in kernel?
Ans:
# enable ftrace
[root@localhost ~]# cd /sys/kernel/debug/tracing
[root@localhost tracing]# echo function &gt; current_tracer
[root@localhost tracing]# cat current_tracer

function

[root@localhost tracing]# echo 1 &gt; tracing_on

# set filter
[root@localhost tracing]# echo vfs_rename &gt; set_ftrace_filter
[root@localhost tracing]# cat set_ftrace_filter

vfs_rename

# test
[root@localhost tracing]# touch /root/file1
[root@localhost tracing]# touch /root/file2
[root@localhost tracing]# mv /root/file1 /root/file2
[root@localhost tracing]# cat trace

              mv-8971  [000] ....  6834.971361: vfs_rename &lt;-SYSC_renameat2
    in:imjournal-1038  [000] ....  6834.974515: vfs_rename &lt;-SYSC_renameat2

Q2 : Enter emergency mode after booting from grub shell?
Ans:
1. Enter /sysroot
2. modify the grou2/grup.cfg
(The system message show read-only mount point.)
so ...
1. umount /sysroot
2. mount /dev/sda1 /sysroot
3. Enter /sysroot and modify the grup.cfg again.

Q1 : Error in grub.cfg?
Ans:
1. The OS can not boot normally if error in grub.cfg.
2. The terminal will stop in grub shell. --&gt; grub&gt;

We can boot from grub shell:
1. linux /boot/vmlinuz-3.13.0-29-generic 
2. initrd /boot/initrd.img-3.13.0-29-generic
3. boot


</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "FAQ" [1-2675] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit2" id="debug_by_gdb">Debug by GDB</h1>
<div class="level1">
<pre class="file"></pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Debug by GDB" [2676-2719] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit3" id="tools">Tools</h1>
<div class="level1">
<pre class="file"># Get ip address from booting.
1. /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-ens192
2. ONBOOT=yes

# ssh login without password
1. ssh-keygen
2. ssh-copy-id -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub remote-host
3. ssh remote-host</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Tools" [2720-2958] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit4" id="kernel">Kernel</h1>
<div class="level1">
<pre class="file">[Reference]
1. https://wiki.centos.org/zh-tw/HowTos/Custom_Kernel
2. https://wiki.centos.org/zh-tw/HowTos/I_need_the_Kernel_Source

Q2 : printk?
Ans :
1. dmesg -n 8  #print message from 1 to 8
2. cat /proc/sys/kernel/printk
3. printk() 採用的默認級別是 DEFAULT_MESSAGE_LOGLEVEL，這個在 kernel/printk.c 中被定義為整數 4
4. echo &#039;7 7 7 7&#039; &gt; /proc/sys/kernel/printk
(分別表示當前控制台日誌級別、未明確指定日誌級別的默認消息日誌級別、最小（最高）允許設置的控制台日誌級別、引導時默認的日誌級別)
5.
#define KERN_EMERG    &quot;&lt;0&gt;&quot;    /* system is unusable */
#define KERN_ALERT    &quot;&lt;1&gt;&quot;    /* action must be taken immediately */
#define KERN_CRIT     &quot;&lt;2&gt;&quot;    /* critical conditions */
#define KERN_ERR      &quot;&lt;3&gt;&quot;    /* error conditions */
#define KERN_WARNING  &quot;&lt;4&gt;&quot;    /* warning conditions */
#define KERN_NOTICE   &quot;&lt;5&gt;&quot;    /* normal but significant */
#define KERN_INFO     &quot;&lt;6&gt;&quot;    /* informational */
#define KERN_DEBUG    &quot;&lt;7&gt;&quot;    /* debug-level messages */


Q1 : What is the difference between kernel-devel and kernel-source?
Ans : 
1. kernel-devle 
kernel-devel包只包含用于内核开发环境所需的内核头文件以及Makefile.

2. kernel-source
kernel-souce包含所有内核源代码。
</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "Kernel" [2959-] -->