
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="core_dump_file_analysis">Core dump file analysis</h1>
<div class="level1">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> example : gdb /usr/bin/smbd path/to/the/core</div>
</li>
</ul>
<pre class="file">Some generic help:

gdb start GDB, with no debugging les

gdb program begin debugging program

gdb program core debug coredump core produced by program

gdb --help describe command line options

1- First of all find the directory where the corefile is generated.

2- Then use ls -ltr command in the directory to find the latest generated corefile.

3- To load the corefile use

gdb binary path of corefile

This will load the corefile.

4- Then you can get the information using bt command. For detailed backtrace use bt full.

5- To print the variables use print variable-name or p variable-name

6- To get any help on gdb use help option or use apropos search-topic

7- Use frame frame-number to go to desired frame number.

8- Use up n and down n commands to select frame n frames up and select frame n frames down respectively.

9- To stop gdb use quit or q.</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Core dump file analysis" [1-965] -->
<h1 class="sectionedit2" id="x_command">x command</h1>
<div class="level1">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Displays the memory contents at a given address using the specified format.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> </div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<a href="http://visualgdb.com/gdbreference/commands/x" class="urlextern" title="http://visualgdb.com/gdbreference/commands/x" rel="nofollow">http://visualgdb.com/gdbreference/commands/x</a>
</p>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "x command" [966-] -->